# dogutilitymod
**RimWorld mod for dog utility** 
<br> *A collab featuring Octogiraffe* <br>
This mod will add a new feature where your four pawed companion will support you as pawn are disabled/wheelchaired,deaf/blind. It will require research which will be put as support dog training. This mod is going to require animal gear and animal equipment to work.
The idea came from Octogiraffe, when he was asking for features and how to implement ideas related to an Ukrainian dog. 24-6-2023 Octogiraffe agreed to my suggestions about dog harnesses on the Rim.Any clue how the harness would tie into finding bombs? Still gonna make it anyway but I want to see if I can squeeze that detail into actual gameplay that will requires: animal equipment and animal gear mods to work.
Idea for Danger-detecting Doggo Harness.  Adds Danger-detecting Doggo harness. Concept: Rimmunation clothing adds bombsuits, belts/gear which are worn on the utility slot, not sure if animal gear has functional slots. I want the bomb/EMP detector to be implemented in the dog harness and it will emit an alarm sound to warn others. I have found the perfct sound sample in .ogg format. Detects IEDs in enemy bases. Additional functions to dig up truffles and drugs would also be nice. Idk, but the mod animal forage has similar features. t is noted as an animal base → item it will forage/spawn. It could also trigger drugs like cocaine and heroin/smokeleaf. We can also add the idea of animal footprints,pawprint. a dog that will wear a detective outfit with a detective hat. 
Tags: Protective support, dogtective, dogutility, animalgear, animalequipment.
